---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit4/m4u4.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module4.html)

# Unit 4: Breach Analysis and Mitigation

## Table of Contents

- 👉[Activity: Collaborative Discussion 2: The Pros and Cons of Logging - The Impact of log4j](/pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit4/collab-log4j.html)
- 👉[Case Study: Reviewing an Assessment Reporting Template](/pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit4/case-study.html)

## Formative Activities

- Begin the first week of your Collaborative Discussion 2.
- Complete the Scanning and Collaborative Wiki Activity.
- Prepare for and attend this week's seminar.
- e-Portfolio. Continue to write reflections in your e-portfolio as you progress through the module.
- Module Wiki. Update the Module Wiki where you can.

## Unit Description

Welcome to Week 4. This week we will use the techniques covered so far to review and evaluate security breaches and formulate responses to typical attacks. We will also review the suite of tools contained in the Kali Linux distribution that are focused on security assessments and testing.

In this unit we shall:
- Review a number of typical security breaches.
- Discuss typical mitigations to stated attacks.
- Evaluate some of the tools include in the Kali Linux software distribution.

On completion of this unit you will be able to:
- Describe a typical breach attack.
- Suggest suitable mitigations against typical attacks.
- Evaluate and select appropriate tools from the Kali Linux distribution.
