---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module4/assignment2/m4a2.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module4.html)

# Module 4: Assignment 2: Vulnerability Audit and Assessment - Results and Executive Summary

## Table of Contents

- [Docx Version - Assignment 2: Vulnerability Audit and Assessment - Results and Executive Summary](/pages/module4/assignment2/TW_Copperplate_ExecutiveSummary_M4A2.docx)
- [Markdown Version - Assignment 2: Vulnerability Audit and Assessment - Results and Executive Summary](/pages/module4/assignment2/tw-copperplate-executivesummary-m4a2.html)

## Assignment Description

*This assignment accounts for 40% of your final grade for this module. The word count is 1,200 words and is due at the end of Unit 6.*

**Assignment Topic**

Following your analysis document that you submitted in Unit 3, you should now produce an executive summary that pulls together your findings, recommendations and conclusions in a clear and unambiguous format. It should consist of:

- A brief summary of the work carried out.
- Summary findings – presented in an easy to understand, non-technical manner (supported by graphics and charts as appropriate).
- A section that evaluates the website against two security standards – one of which must be the GDPR directive.
- Conclusions – with justifications.
- Recommendations – with justifications, ordered by business priority.

Note: the executive summary should organise any recommendations in order of the priority to the business’ commercial needs. The organisation is particularly interested in how well they meet current security standards (including the new GDPR directive) and expect to see any mitigations required to meet such standards clearly called out as important business requirements.

Please note: appendices should not be used to extend the core report as reports should stand alone, complete and concise, without the appendices. They should only be used if required, and only for supplementary and/ or supporting information. One key part of the exercises in this module is the need to be to be able to express ideas succinctly, concisely and with necessary brevity.

**Assignment Checklist**

- List of security issues found and comparison with baseline.
- Methodology used, (with limitations encountered).
- Summary of data (graphical where possible).
- Comparison against a security standard, plus an evaluation of how well the business meets its GDPR requirements.
- Summary of conclusions (based on/linked back to data).
- Summary of recommendations (in descending order, based on risk).
- Applicable citations and references.

**Learning Outcomes**

- Gather and synthesise information from multiple sources (including internet security alerts and warning sites) to aid in the systematic analysis of security breaches and issues.
- Articulate the legal, social, ethical and professional issues faced by information security and risk professionals.
