---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module7/unit-assignments/unit3/m7u3.html
---

⬅️[Module 7](/pages/module7.html)

# Unit 3: xyz

## Table of Contents

- [Unit Description](#unit-description)
- [xyz](/pages/module6/unit-assignments/unit3/xyz)

This unit had us complete an initial post as part of the collaborative discussion part 1 set.

## Unit Description

*Description copied from [Unit page](https://www.my-course.co.uk/course/view.php?id=11272&section=9) on 05 FEB 2024.*

Welcome to Week 3 where we will discuss various approaches to Threat Modelling. We will discuss a number of popular approaches including STRIDE and DREAD, Attack Trees and hybrid models such as the Process for Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis (PASTA). We will also introduce some guides and cookbooks that can be used to help in selecting which framework to use.

This week we shall:
- Discuss the difference between threats and vulnerabilities.
- Review a number of threat modelling techniques.
- Discuss a number of guides and cookbooks to help with threat modelling.

On completion of this week, you will be able to:
- Describe a number of threat modelling techniques.
- Advise which technique should be used in specific situations.
- Discuss when techniques should be combined in a hybrid model.

This week introduces students to the differences between threats and vulnerabilities and introduces a number of threat modelling and management tools.

## Formative Activities

Complete the portfolio exercise on Security Standards. We will be discussing these articles and the wiki entries in next week’s seminar.

Prepare for next week’s seminar by reviewing the preparation material available in Unit 4.
