---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module1/assignment1/part2/m1a1p2.html
---

## Module 1: Assignment 1: Part 2: Algorithm and Programming Development

### 🙉 Table of Contents

- 👉[Unit 8 Assignment (Data Structures and Algorithm Design)](/pages/module1/assignment1/part1/m1a1p1.html)
- 👉[README Requirement](/pages/module1/assignment1/part2/readme.html)

### 📝 Requirements

**Assignment Description: Algorithm and Programming Development**

This is a Python programming challenge to assess your ability to design an algorithm to solve a problem. The actual assessment is to be completed in the Python workspace available to you in Codio (Python Lab 1) where you will need to provide the coding scripts that fulfil the required outcomes.

Based on your work in Part 1 of this submission (Unit 8), you will now need to:

1. develop a Python program which fulfills the functionality of the application you have chosen. It should have an interface design and enable users to:

   - enter at least five records
   - delete and search records based on keyword/string entry
   - sort records in a specific order and display them on the screen
   - select an option on the screen to perform a function
   - get a prompt on screen before an action is performed

2. test and validate your work:
   - Your work needs to be tested and verified using test data as outlined in section 3 of your submission in Part 1 (Unit 8).
   - Check the functionality of the algorithms as outlined in section 3 of your submission in Part 1 (Unit 8).

**Assignment Guidance**

_You should not use any code that is generated automatically by a flowchart/pseudocode generator for this assignment. However, you can use drawing tools for the presentation of your flowchart/pseudocode. Your python code should include comments where necessary. You must not use any external Python libraries._

Note that the associated grading criteria are highlighted in the requirements below, to be reviewed alongside the criteria grid (Module Resources).

You will need to submit a zip file containing:

- A single pdf/word file containing:
  all sections of Part 1 (Unit 8). This will not be included in your word count.

  - the testing strategy used, making sure to reference your submission for Part 1.
  - a README file containing a description of the implementation and instructions on how to execute the code, in relation to the design discussed in Part 1. (800 words)

- Your Python code, covering:
  - Code Quality – is the appropriate approach (techniques, algorithms, etc) used? (Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 20%)
  - Application functionality and
  - Testing and validation. (Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 10%, Application of Knowledge and understanding weighted a 30%)

You will receive marks for unsuccessful answers if they build a logical argument.

_Structure and Presentation of your work (weighted at 30%)_ refers to comments on the code explaining it, the README file with the details requested above, as well as how well you have organised your code.

Please note that academic integrity applies to your codes where all sources can be placed in the README file and/or as part of the code commentary. (Academic Integrity weighted at 10%)
