---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module5/assignment1/m5a1.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module5.html)

# Module 5: Assignment 1: Literature Review

My topic for this literature review was chosen in Unit 1, you can read about that [here](/pages/module5/unit-assignments/unit1/m5u1.html).

## Assignment Description

This is the first summative assessment for this module and accounts for 30% of your final module mark. Submit by end of Unit 7. Word count is 2,000 words.

**Assignment Brief**

The literature review fulfils the learning outcomes where you will critically evaluate existing literature, research design and methodology for your chosen topic and so produce a literature review on this topic. 

You will have selected the topic for this task from the list provided in Unit 1. You should refer to the Guide Questions provided in Unit 2 to evaluate and refine your literature review before submission, bearing in mind the key aims of a standalone literature review (with the applicable grading criterion highlighted from the grid on the Module Resources page):
- To provide an overview of current knowledge on the chosen topic. (Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 30%)
- To demonstrate an awareness of relevant, current literature. (Use of Relevant sources weighted at 20%)
- To highlight similar and contrasting views on your chosen topic. (Criticality weighted at 30%)
- To showcase your research and writing skills. (Structure and Presentation weighted at 10%, Academic Integrity weighted at 10%)

**Learning Outcomes**

- Appraise the principles of academic investigation, applying them to a research topic in the applicable computing field.
- Evaluate critically existing literature, research design and methodology for the chosen topic, including data analysis processes.
