---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit3/m4u3.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module4.html)

# Unit 3: Vulnerability Assessments

## Table of Contents

- [Assignment 1: Vulnerability Audit and Assessment - Baseline Analysis and Plan](/pages/module4/assignment1/m4a1.html)
- [Scanning Activity](/pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit3/scanning-activity.html)

## Formative Activities

1. **Watch** this week's lecturecast.
2. **Complete** the Scanning Activity.
3. **Prepare** for next week's seminar session on the Breach Analysis Case Study by reveiwing the seminar preparation available in Unit 4.
4. **e-Portfolio**. Continue to write reflections in your e-portfolio as you progress through the module.
5. **Module Wiki**. Update the Module Wiki where you can.

## Unit Description

Welcome to Week 3. This week we will review the different approaches to vulnerability assessments from paper-based processes such as Cyber Essentials, through a variety of vulnerability assessment approaches, to Crest-based and certified Penetration Tests. The lecturecast focuses on a general vulnerability assessment approach that can be used to create the basic audit document. This document should be used as the basis for more in-depth penetration tests.

In this unit we shall:
- Discuss and review the different approaches to vulnerability testing/ assessments.
- Evaluate and select appropriate testing and scanning tools to perform an assessment.
- Analyse results and produce a vulnerability assessment report.

On completion of this unit you will be able to:
- Select and explain which assessment regime to use based on the type and size of the target business.
- Utilise open-source scanning and testing tools to perform vulnerability tests and scans.
- Analyse scanning results and make recommendations to mitigate vulnerabilities.
