---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit1/m3u1.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module3.html)

# Unit 1: Introduction to Secure Software Development

This unit assignment had a minimum 200-word "Initial Post" requirement explaining a security flaw that is defined by OWASP, and creating a UML diagram for it; I chose OWASP A05:2021-Security Misconfiguration. It also required us to respond to two of our peers' posts and to include our responses in the ePortfolio. I responded to my peers Uthman Adams and Daud Abassi, peer responses 1 and 2, respectively.

## Table of Contents

- 📃[Initial Post](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit1/initial-post/m3u1-initialpost.html)
- 📃[Peer Response 1](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit1/peer-response-1/m3u1p1.html)
- 📃[Peer Response 2](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit1/peer-response-2/m3u1p2.html)

## Requirements

### Discussion Topic

Open source tools are available to create UML diagrams, some are listed below. This list is not exhaustive. The benefit of using such tools is that they ensure that the recognised UML components are used to represent the parts of the model correctly.

- Visual Paradigm
- Sequence Diagram
- Umbrello

Choose an open-source UML tool from the list above. Select one of the coding weaknesses which have been identified by OWASP and create a flowchart of the steps which may have led to the weakness occurring. Which UML models might you use to present the design of your proposed software, and why are they the most appropriate choice(s)?

Remember to save this to your e-portfolio.

### Learning Outcomes

- Identify and manage security risks as part of a software development project.
- Critically analyse development problems and determine appropriate methodologies, tools and techniques (including program design and development) to solve them.

### Assignment Guidance

- Your initial posting should respond to the question and be at least 200 words long. This should be labelled as 'Initial Post'
- You will then respond to at least 2 of your peers' posts in unit 2 (each labelled as 'Peer Response'). To guide your responses, look at the guidelines for the peer review process on the Department’s homepage. Focus on the possible measures that could have been put in place in order to prevent the incidents highlighted by your peers. Please try to limit your response posts to 200-300 words maximum, so that others may be encouraged to reflect on, and respond to your ideas.
- In Unit 3, you should provide a summary post based on your initial post, the feedback from your peers and the content of the three units. Please label this as ‘Summary Post’. It should be 300 words.
- Referencing: When you have referred to other authors thoughts, ideas and opinions in your posts, you must reference the author as you would in an academic assignment using the UoEO Harvard reference style.
- You will be not be assessed on your contribution to this forum throughout the module, but the tutor will post group feedback via a module announcement.
- This activity forms a component of your e-portfolio which you will submit in unit 12. All e-portfolio activities are intended to demonstrate your ability and strengths through evidence and reflection.
