---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit1/m4u1.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module4.html)

## Unit 1: History of Network Security, Vulnerabilities and Approaches

### ✨ Table of Contents

- 👉[Website Choice Activity](/pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit1/website-choice.html)
- 👉[Collaborative Discussion 1: Digitalisation](/pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit1/collab-discussion.html)

### Formative Activities

1. **Watch** this week's lecture cast
2. **Begin** the first week of collaborative discussion 1
3. **Complete** the website choice activity and read the further instructions
4. **Attend** the Introductory Session, where there 
will be a briefing on the assessments for this module
5. **Prepare** for next week's seminar session on the 'The Solar Winds Breach Case Study' by reviewing the seminar preparation available in Unit 2
6. **e-Portfolio**: It is expected that reflections will be written in your e-portfolio as you progress through the module. The e-portfolio can be submitted for formative feedback at the end of the module (separate to the assessed Individual Reflective Piece, due at the end of Unit 6). If you haven’t already done so, you will need to create a new section in your e-portfolio specifically for this module. A guideline on the requirements is provided on the e-Portfolio page. If you have any questions about this, please contact the module tutor.
7. **Module Wiki**: As you work through this module, you will inevitably come across terms and pieces of information which are novel and worth sharing. You can place such information in the Module Wiki to benefit the whole group. In the wiki, you can place a term/word/phrase, as well as its definition and/or any information you have sourced on the topic (clearly referenced).

### ePortfolio Component

- Collaborative Discussion 1: Digitalisation - What are the security implications of the digital economy
- Website Choice Activity
- Website Choice Instructions

### Unit Description

Welcome to Week 1. This week we will review the history of network security and vulnerabilities and relate it to the modern landscape. We will also discuss some security best practices and review the Cyber Kill Chain model proposed by Lockheed Martin (Hutchins et al, 2011), which was based on a study of contemporary breach approaches.

In this unit we shall:
- Review the history of network security and vulnerabilities.
- Discuss a best practice approach to security.
- Review a number of modern scanning and attack approaches.

On completion of this unit you will be able to:
- Explain the origins of a number of common attacks.
- Recommend a best practice approach to mitigate attacks.
- Discuss a number of modern protection techniques.
