---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module7/unit-assignments/unit1/m7u1.html
---

⬅️[Module 7](/pages/module7.html)

# Unit 1: An Introduction to Security and Risk Management

## Table of Contents

- [Unit Formative Activities](#formative-activities)
- [Unit Description](#unit-description)
- [Unit xyz]()

## Formative Activities

Module Wiki. As you work through this module, you will inevitably come across terms and pieces of information which are novel and worth sharing. You can place such information in the Module Wiki to benefit the whole group. In the wiki, you can place a term/word/phrase, as well as its definition and/or any information you have sourced on the topic (clearly referenced). There are also formative exercises around the wiki in a number of units.

Prepare for next week’s seminar by reviewing the preparation material available in Unit 2. 

## Unit Description

*Description copied from [Unit page](https://www.my-course.co.uk/course/view.php?id=11272&section=7) on 05 FEB 2024.*

Welcome to Week 1 where we will review some common definitions of, and approaches to Security and Risk Management.

This week we shall:
- Review a number of common definitions of Security and Risk Management.
- Review some common Security and Risk Management Concepts.
- Discuss the Risk Management Process.

On completion of this week, you will be able to:
- Discuss the various definitions of risk.
- Explain how to assess, qualify and mitigate risks.
- Describe various approaches to quantify and qualify risks.
- List common security and risk standards and select the appropriate one(s) for a given situation.

This week’s session (and accompanying lecture cast) is designed to provide the basic tools required to study and understand security risk management. It provides a number of definitions of risk and introduces the concepts of qualitative and quantitative risk assessments which will be reviewed in more detail in subsequent sessions.
