---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module4/assignment3/m4a3.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module4.html)

# Module 4: Assignment 3: Individual Reflective Piece

## Table of Contents

- 👉[Docx Version - Assignment 3: Individual Reflective Piece](/pages/module4/assignment2/TW_IndividualReflectivePiece_M4A3.docx)
- 👉[Markdown Version - Assignment 3: Individual Reflective Piece](/pages/module4/assignment3/tw-individual-reflective-piece-m4a3.html)

## Assignment Description

This assignment accounts for 30% of your final grade for this module. The word count is 800 words (not including diagrams, charts and illustrations) and is due at the end of Unit 6.

### Assignment Topic

This assignment focuses on your reflections on the skill and knowledge gained from the module. In particular, the legal, social, ethical and professional issues faced by information security and risk professionals.

You have the option of presenting this as a video recording or simply as written text. In creating the content, some people find a diary style approach helps. You could start by providing a brief description of the project outcomes or critical incident (What?), analyse and interpret the information (So what?) and then decide how you can use the information and learning from it (Now what?) (Rolfe et al., 2001).

If submitting a video, remember to include subtitles and provide a transcript file (in English) and upload this into the submission portal below. The video recording can consist of a series of video logs recorded during the module, edited together to form a comprehensive video diary for final submission.
Whatever format you choose, your submission should flow as an integrated, comprehensive record of your experience on the module. The emphasis is not on the look and feel of your reflection but rather the content; by communicating your thoughts in a clear and concise manner.

Note: it is expected that reflections will be written as you progress through the module and logged in your e-portfolio. The final reflective piece that you prepare, which might include components of the reflections that you have captured throughout the module, is the piece which should be submitted below.

Below are some exploratory questions, taken from the grading criteria, to help you develop your reflection:

- Have you clearly described the activities you carried out in this module (as stated above) and the various aspects of these activities which are key to your reflection? (Knowledge and Understanding, weighted at 20%).
- Have you evidenced your ability to work autonomously during this module, taking into account the artefacts you have created (as stated above)? Have you been able to share your knowledge with others? (Independent Working, weighted at 25%).
- How did working on the undertaking these activities make you feel? How did these emotions affect you and your work? Have you reviewed the views of others, your prior experience, and correctly referenced literature, in relation to your current behaviour and the work you’ve done? (Application of Knowledge, weighted at 10%).
- Have you thought deeply about what exactly produced your learning (or a new way of thinking) while taking these activities? (Application of Knowledge, weighted at 10%).
- Do you have evidence of skills and knowledge developed through this module? Provide a clear description of your evidence of learning and how you can apply (or have applied) them in a real-world experience. (Application of Knowledge, weighted at 10%).
- Is there an accurate use of citations and references throughout this piece of work? Have you demonstrated the required integrity in your submission? (Academic Integrity, weighted at 10%).
