---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module5/unit-assignments/unit12/m5u12.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module5.html)

# Unit 12: Project Management and Managing Risk

## Table of Contents

- [Unit 12 Description](/pages/module5/unit-assignments/unit12/m5u12-description.html)
- [Unit 12 Assignment 3: ePortfolio](/pages/module5/assignment3/m5a3.html)


## Self Test Quiz


>Which of the following more accurately describes what a project is?
>
>Select one:
>- a. Any activity which has a specific outcome, has a clear deadline and is unique.
>- b. Any change which is being implemented by an organisation
>- c. Any activity which hasn’t been undertaken previously but has a specific outcome.

answer: a ✅

---

>The project lifecycle includes the following stages / processes:
>
>Select one:
>- a. Initiating, Organising and preparing, Implementing, Monitoring and Controlling, Closing.
>- b. Initiating, Planning, Executing, Monitoring and Controlling, Closing.
>- c. Planning, Executing, Monitoring and Controlling, Closing.
>- d. Initiating, Scoping, Planning, Executing, Monitoring and Controlling, Closing.

answer: b ✅

---

>Which of the following could be considered a project?
>
>Select one:
>- a. Ensuring staff coverage of a call centre for 24 hours a day.
>- b. Writing and publishing a book.
>- c. Organising distribution of customer orders.

answer: b ✅

---

>Which of the following are considered to be project methodologies?
>
>Select one or more:
>- a. Agile.
>- b. Scrum.
>- c. BKOM.
>- d. Prince 2.
>- e. Waterfall.

answer: a, b, d, e ✅

---

>You have just joined an organisation as a project manager and are studying the environmental factors of the organisation to find out you can leverage them for the success of your upcoming projects. Environmental factors may have what kind of influence on the project?
>
>Select one:
>- a. Neither.
>- b. Negative only.
>- c. Positive only.
>- d. Positive and negative.

answer: d ✅

---

>What best describes a project methodology?
>
>Select one:
>- a. A guide to the skills that a Project Manager needs to initiate, plan, implement and close projects.
>- b. A framework which can be adopted by project managers to guide them through the process of initiating, planning, implementing, and closing projects.
>- c. A step by step guide to project management which helps project managers plan and implement projects.

answer: b ✅

---

>Which of the following techniques is NOT a method used to identify risks?
>
>Select one:
>- a. SWOT analysis.
>- b. Delphi technique.
>- c. Brainstorming.
>- d. Web browsing.

answer: d ✅

---

>You are the Project Manager for an organisation seeking to implement a new IT system.  Due to the lack of technical expertise in-house, it has been decided to outsource the implementation to contractors. This is an example of?
>
>Select one:
>- a. Risk transfer.
>- b. Risk mitigation.
>- c. Risk acceptance.
>- d. Risk avoidance.

answer: a ❌
correct answer: c, risk acceptance
reflection: This is obvious now that I reflect on it; if there is no technical expertise for the project, then the risk is accepted by outsourcing the implementation to a party that does have the technical expertise.
