---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit9/m3u9.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module3.html)

## Unit 9: Developing an API for a Distributed Environment

This unit's formative activities were to continue those in Unit 8, read the seminar prep info in Unit 10, and to continue the Codio activities in Unit 7 if they weren't completed. These activities are completed, and I can't complete the discussion activities, **so I will instead provide a simple Flask API for a /users endpoint, see below.**

### 👽 Table of Contents

- 👉[Simple Users API Endpoint In Flask](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit9/simple-users-api.html)

### 📝 Requirements

Welcome to Week 9. This week is important from the perspective of gaining practical Python developing skills which will support your summative assessment. During this week’s materials, you will create an API, and using that API, you will experiment with creating and reading records.

#### In this unit we shall:
- Investigate the application of CRUD capabilities in Python.
- Continue to expand our knowledge on the capabilities of further Python libraries.
- Reflect on the utility of an ontology to support a distributed architecture.

#### On completion of this unit you will be able to:
- Create an API and use it to create and read records.
- Become familiar with the capabilities of Python’s flask library.
- Design an ontology which can be used in standardised service deployments.
- Knowledge of the Python libraries will continue to be built upon this week and will now be harnessed to create an API through which a system can be created to perform file management. At the back-end side of development prior to this, students have been exposed to how to create software, which is secure, through the application of good coding practices. Skillsets will now be expanded upon to access the back-end code developments through a user interface (UI).
