---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit5/m4u5.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module4.html)

# Unit 5: Reviewing an Assessment Reporting Template

## Formative Activities

The activities in this unit were to continue last week's activities. As they have been completed, see [Unit 4](/pages/module4/unit-assignments/unit4/m4u4.html).

## Unit Description


Welcome to Week 5. This week we will discuss two topics key to breach investigation and resolution: logging and forensics. We will look at the differences between logging on Windows and Linux systems and review key tools used in logging. We will also review the types of investigation that can be carried out using common forensic tools.

In this unit we shall:
- Review logging tools and techniques on Windows and Linux.
- Discuss best practice for the use of logging on both systems.
- Investigate the use of forensic tools and the data that can be extracted.

On completion of this unit you will be able to:
- Specify a logging configuration for Windows/Linux.
- Select and utilise forensic tools.
- Analyse the results of log and forensic analysis tools.

Formative Activities:
- Watch this week's lecturecast.
- Continue the second week of your Collaborative Discussion 2.
- Complete the Case Study: Reviewing an Assessment Reporting Template activity.
- Prepare for next week's seminar session on The Debate - The Future of the Internet by reveiwing the seminar preparation available in Unit 6.
- e-Portfolio. Continue to write reflections in your e-portfolio as you progress through the module.
- Module Wiki. Update the Module Wiki where you can.
