---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module7/unit-assignments/unit2/m7u2.html
---

⬅️[Module 7](/pages/module7.html)

# Unit 2: Threat Modelling Exercises

## Table of Contents

- [Unit Description](#unit-description)
- [Collaborative Discussion Unit 1 - Part 2](/pages/module6/unit-assignments/unit2/collab-discussion2.html)

This unit had us complete an initial post as part of the collaborative discussion part 1 set.

## Unit Description

*Description copied from [Unit page](https://www.my-course.co.uk/course/view.php?id=11272&section=8) on 05 FEB 2024.*

Welcome to Week 2 where we will conduct a deeper dive into the Risk Management Process – specifically looking at the effect of different types of assessment (Qualitative vs. Quantitative) and we will practice threat modelling and management, guided by the threat modelling manifesto, the OWASP cookbook and the Mitre ATT&CK database.

This week we shall:
- Review the Risk Management Process (RMP).
- Review the effects of different assessment types (Qualitative vs. Quantitative).
- Discuss various tools and resources that can be used in threat modelling and management.
- Evaluate the use of publicly available tools to assist with Threat Modelling.
- Create threat models based on suggested scenarios.

On completion of this week, you will be able to:
- Describe where to find the key tools and resources used for threat modelling.
- Explain how to select the most appropriate tool for various situations.
- Critically evaluate the use of such tools.

This is a key unit in the module because it introduces students to the topic of threat modelling which is a core competency both for cyber security and development teams.

## Formative Activities

Continue the discussion in unit 1 . You should choose at least two of your peers' contributions and comment on the entries.

Your posts should be a maximum of 300 words. Please include sufficient content so that others may be encouraged to reflect on and respond to your ideas. Your follow-up responses should be labelled as “Peer Response”. You should do this before working through the preparation for Seminar 1.
