---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module1/assignment1/part3/m1a1p3.html
---

## Module 1: Assignment 1: Part 3: MySQL

### 🙊 Table of Contents

- [README Requirement](/pages/module1/assignment1/part3/readme.html)
- [MySQL File (Download)](./m1a1p3.sql)
- [MySQL File (Markdown)](/pages/module1/assignment1/part3/m1a1p3-sql.html)

### 📝 Requirements

**Assignment Description: MySQL**

This is a MySQL programming challenge. The actual assessment is to be completed in the MySQL workspace available to you in Codio (SQL Lab 1) where you will need to provide the coding scripts that fulfil the required outcomes.

The tables, datasets and questions for this assessment are in the Codio assessment workspace.

Ensure that you read the instructions provided before starting your work. The instructions also show the table data definitions (as described in Appendix A) which will assist you in building the structure of the queries for this assessment.

**SQL programming exercise:**

The Assessment workspace contains the EMP and DEPT tables (described in Appendix A) from a fictional organisation “COMPANY1”. You will need to provide the SQL scripts which achieve the following outcomes:

1. List all Employees whose salary is between 1,000 AND 2,000. Show the Employee Name, Department and Salary (4 marks)
2. Count the number of people in department 30 who receive a salary and the number of people who receive a commission. (4 marks)
3. Find the name and salary of employees in Dallas. (4 marks)
4. List all departments that do not have any employees. (4 marks)
5. List the department number and average salary of each department. (4 marks)

**Assignment Guidance**

You are expected to submit a README file along with your code file. Your README file should contain a description of the solutions you have implemented, as well as any alternative approaches. Your code should include comments explaining the code. You will receive marks for unsuccessful answers if they build a logical argument.
