---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module5/unit-assignments/unit10/m5u10.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module5.html)

# Unit 10: Research Writing

## Table of Contents

-  [Unit 10 Description](/pages/module5/unit-assignments/unit10/m5u10-description.html)
-  [Assignment 2: Research Proposal](/pages/module5/assignment2/m5a2.html)
-  [Unit 10: Statistics Worksheets Formative Submission (zip)](/pages/module5/unit-assignments/unit10/TW-RMPP-Unit10-StatsWorksheets.zip)

__*Statistics Worksheet Formative Feedback*__: I submitted the Unit 8 and 9 statistics worksheets for feedback, previous to my ePortfolio submission on August 28th, 2023.

__*Update*__: August 31, 2023 - I received feedback for the Unit 8 and 9 statistics worksheets. I have included the feedback below as per the unit instructions.

---

Tutor: Karen Outram

Submission attempt: Formative

>Thank you for submitting your statistical worksheets. Thank you also for your ‘read me’ notes, which I followed and used the links.
>
>The formative is completed to an excellent standard, reflecting the appropriate statistical outcomes and variables from the questions posed in the formative, and the exercises responded to in Units 8 and 9.
>
>Responses are quantitively thorough, with qualitative discussion added to consolidate quantitative findings.
>
>Statistics are a key part of the Unit 12 e-portfolio, and this is a good example regarding how to reflect extensive statistical information responding to a formative that will then become an artefact for your eportfolio.
>
>Please now add all these formative outcomes for Unit 8 & 9 as artefacts to your final e-portfolio, as these artefacts are an ESSENTIAL part of the e-portfolio, which is graded as a summative outcome in Unit 12.
>
>With best wishes
>
>Karen
