---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module3/assignment2/m3a2.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module3.html)

# Module 3: Assignment 2: Coding Output

> ⚠️ DISCLAIMER ⚠️
> 
> This project is a prototype for a University project, and should not be viewed as a production-ready app. You should not expect that it is secure. It employs techniques that were taught during the course of the module in a clear and sometimes verbose manner to demonstrate concepts, learning process, and ability. Do not use any of the code presented here in a production environment.


In this module we were to take our design document created in [assignment 1](/pages/module3/assignment1/m3a1.html) and create a functional prototype based on the specification. The prototype is written in Python 3.11 and originally used the [Bottle](https://bottlepy.org/docs/dev/) microframework, but was swapped out in favour of the [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/) framework. It uses SQLite and a bespoke API to store and retrieve data, and uses a session uuid generated at user creation along with Flask's sessions module to authorize users.

This project had its underlying framework swapped and significant changes to schema and design. The original design document was updated to reflect these changes, and can be found [here(docx download)](/pages/module3/assignment2/teamtransparency-ssdcs-design-spec-updated-assignment2.docx) or [here(markdown)](/pages/module3/assignment2/teamtransparency-ssdcs-design-spec-updated-assignment2.html).

## Table of Contents

- 🧑‍💻[Link to Github Repo](https://github.com/turbits/SSDCS-IDA)
- 📃[Updated Design Document (docx)](/pages/module3/assignment2/teamtransparency-ssdcs-design-spec-updated-assignment2.docx)
- 📃[Updated Design Document (markdown)](/pages/module3/assignment2/teamtransparency-ssdcs-design-spec-updated-assignment2.html)

## Requirements

This assignment has two component parts, the team submission, and your individual peer assessment. All components must be submitted by end of unit 11. 

This accounts for 40% of your total module mark. Remember to save a copy of the final product (as well as your individual contributions) to your individual GitHub repositories.

Only one submission is required from each team. Nominate one member of your team to submit on the team's behalf. 

### Assignment Brief

Carrying on from the Full Brief provided in Unit 3, this assignment focuses on the second deliverable, a practical development of your design from Unit 3. 

Your work can be carried out in the Codio Jupyter Notebook workspace, but final submission should be placed here only, as this is a team submission (1 per team). These final submissions build on the work you demonstrated during the seminar sessions. You are also required to submit your peer review at the end of week 6. The peer review is an individual submission.

### Submission Checklist

- You should submit a fully tested set of code with all required libraries. Code should be well documented with in-line commentary.
- You should supply evidence of execution, demonstrating how key aspects of your code work (via demos, screenshots and output captures.
- You should include comprehensive evidence of testing including output from test tools (such as linters, etc.) demonstrating correct code, security and functional testing with any remediation activity documented as well.
- You should submit a README file that documents how the application runs.
- You should also be prepared to give regular demonstrations of: 
    - Code and executables.
    - Testing.
    - Demonstrations of development over the lifetime of the module (these may happen in the seminar sessions or in one-to-one sessions with your tutor).
    - A final session that demonstrates the functionality of the application that will be submitted, demonstrating as much functionality as possible and drawing attention to key operations and code.

### File Submission

- The source code and applicable documentation (including. comments explaining the code). Good programming principles should be applied throughout the code.
- Output from testing tools and suites.
- A README file containing a description of the solution implemented, and instructions on how to execute the code.

Note that the associated grading criteria are highlighted in the requirements below, to be reviewed alongside the criteria grid (Module Resources).

1. Python code, covering:
    - Code Quality – is the appropriate approach (techniques, algorithms etc) used, and
    - Meeting the design requirements(Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 30%)
   - Application of object-oriented programming features, and
    - Database Implementation and Testing (Application of Knowledge and understanding weighted a 30%)

2. Structure and Presentation (weighted at 30%) focuses on
    - Comments on the code explaining it,
    - Your README file containing a description of the implementation and instructions on how to execute the code, and
    - How well you have organised your code.

Please note that academic integrity applies to the demonstrations as mentioned above, and your codes, where all sources can be placed in the README file and/or as part of the code commentary. (Academic Integrity weighted at 10%)

Please note that appendices should not be used to extend the core report as reports should stand alone, complete and concise, without the appendices. They should really only be used if required, and only for supplementary and/ or supporting information. One key part of the exercises in this module is the need to be to be able to express ideas succinctly, concisely and with necessary brevity.
