---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit10/m3u10.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module3.html)

## Unit 10: From Distributed Computing to Microarchitectures

The formative activities for Unit 10 were to continue the collaborative discussion in Unit 8, and to complete the eportfolio activity outline in the requirements below. Unfortunately I was unable to take part in the discussion component, but I have completed the eportfolio activity, see TOC below.


### 😃 Table of Contents

- 👉[Faceted Data](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit10/faceted-data.html)

### 📝 Requirements


Welcome to Week 10, in which we will consider the variety of system architectures which exist today, from monolithic deployments to microservices, virtualisation, and containers. We will gain an appreciation of the reasons why the architectures have evolved in the manner that they have and recognise the security problems which can become problematic in each. As we have increasingly moved towards more distributed modes of operation, the surface which can be attacked increases. Intelligent techniques to protect the data that is being transported across these systems is needed, further increasing the drive for system security.

#### In this unit we shall:
- Explore the evolution of system architectures, from distributed systems to microservices.
- Examine the strengths and weaknesses of the variety of approaches to distributed systems.
- Define the security attacks which are specific to virtual environments.

#### On completion of this unit you will be able to:
- Describe a variety of distributed systems, and the pattern in which they evolved.
- Discuss the security attacks that distributed systems, in particular, are vulnerable to.
- Understand the ways in which virtual systems need to be protected due to the specific nature of attacks on them.


The content this week continues to examine the importance of developing secure software, this time from the perspective of distributed systems and the specific challenges which come from operating in a remote manner. Security techniques are therefore expanded this week through the consideration of encryption, for example, and the patterns used to distribute encryption keys, in addition to the nature of attacks that are specific to virtualised environments. This week helps to bring the module content to a more timely and relevant mode of operation, that of being distributed.
