---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module1/assignment1/part1/m1a1p1.html
---

## Module 1: Assignment 1: Part 1: Data Structures and Algorithm Design

This assignment was an 800 word essay regarding the design of data structures and algorithms used in a program. I've included the docx in this folder.

### 🙈 Table of Contents

- 👉[Assignment - docx (download)](/pages/module1/assignment1/part1/data-structures-and-algorithm-design-tw.docx)
- 👉[Assignment - Markdown](/pages/module1/assignment1/part1/m1a1p1/data-structures-and-algorithm-design.html)

### 📝 Requirements

**Assignment Description: Data Structures and Algorithm Design**

One of the core skills that you should have as a computing professional is your ability to design and implement algorithms using a programming language. For this assignment, you will develop an application that will be used to perform our day-to-day actions. It may include, but not be limited to:

- A phone book
- A contact book
- A bank account book
- Personal skill record book
- A record book of your interests and related resources

You may select an application that is relevant to you. You may reach out to your tutor for approval.

**Assignment Requirements:**

Note that the associated grading criteria are highlighted in the requirements below, to be reviewed alongside the criteria grid (Module Resources).

1. A brief outline of the application (Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 10%):
   - Define the objective and purpose of the selected application.
   - Outline the instructions of how the application is to be executed.
2. Design of data structure and algorithms (Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 20%, Application of Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 20%, Structure and Presentation weighted at 20%):
   - Define and show the data structures used in this application. Use diagrams to show the steps where necessary. Data structures may include:
     - Insertion
     - Deletion
     - Sorting
     - Searching
   - Describe the algorithms using flowchart/pseudocode that you have used for this application. You may have multiple algorithms to show your logic and make sure you demonstrate them using flowcharts/pseudocode.
   - It is recommended that you build your functions to execute the tasks and avoid using specialised functions.
3. Test plan (Application of Knowledge and Understanding weighted at 10%, Structure and Presentation weighted at 10% ):
   - Identify the checkpoints that you would like to test and outline a test plan indicating the range of data you will be using.
   - Outline the expected test results

Please note that academic integrity applies to your development where all sources should be clearly and correctly cited and referenced. (Academic Integrity weighted at 10%)

**Assignment Guidance**

Submit a single document outlining your responses to sections 1, 2 and 3. Your report should include your rationale and necessary diagrams and tables.
You will receive marks for unsuccessful answers if they build a logical argument.
