---
layout: page
permalink: /pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit3/m3u3.html
---

⬅️[Back](/pages/module3.html)

## Unit 3: Programming Languages: History, Concepts, and Design

The formative activities for Unit 3 were to continue Unit 1's requirements, and to write a summary post based on our initial post and feedback from our peers. I did not find the time to write a summary post. I did, however, have a dialogue with the course's tutor on my own post regarding sequence diagrams and the use of Actors in them. I also learned that databases should not be directly included in sequence diagrams, but instead be visualized with a boundary object. I have included those posts here to show an understanding of the topic and learning progress in the course.

### 🥸 Table of Contents

- 👉[Discussion Posts](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit3/collaborative-discussion/m3u3-collab.html)
- 👉[Codio Activities](/pages/module3/unit-assignments/unit3/codio/m3u3-codio.html)

### 📝 Requirements

1. Continue the collaborative discussion in Unit 1. During this week, provide a summary of the discussion based on your initial post and the feedback from your peers. This is your `Summary` post. Agree or otherwise, with reasons, with the contributions and reviews made by other students on the topic under discussion, enhancing your original post. This should be 300 words (excluding references). This summary post is a required component of your e-portfolio and provides evidence of your personal growth. You will be submitting the e-portfolio for this module at the end of week 12 as the final summative assessment of the module.

2. Codio. Complete the Codio activies specified below:
   2.a Codio Activity: Exploring Python tools and features
   2.b Codio Activity: The Producer-Consumer Mechanism
